#The philosophy and approach to XMPPHP

= Introduction =

This document introduces XMPP and the approach XMPPHP uses.

= Details =

XMPP is a socket protocol for messages and presence in XML.  It is particularly useful for eventing services and instant messaging.  XMPP consists of two XML documents that start at the beginning of the connection and end at the end of the connection.  One document is the server communicating with the client, and the other document is the client communicating to the server. They can last for as long or as short of a period as you desire.

In XMPPHP, the main processing is done by XMLStream.php.  This contains a class that could be used to make any streaming XML socket server or client.  It handles class connections, starttls style encryption, sending through the socket, but most importantly handling incoming events. In an XMPP stream, there are stanzas one level into the document that describe different interactions: IQ, Messages, and Presence.  IQ interactions are any back-and-forth style communication, such as information requests, or publishes that require a confirmation.  Messages are stanzas that are routed to a specific entity, and contain payloads that might be an IM message or things a form to fill out, or various other direct communications.  Presence stanzas are broadcast to your entire roster, and generally contain payloads indicating your current status (online, offline, away, dnd) and a brief message related to your status.  

XMLStream watches for these stanzas.  Currently in XMPP they can be matched by either the root attribute of "id" or a name/namespace match.  If a match is found, it is sent to the registered function pointer for that match.

XMLStream::addHandler($name, $namespace, $pointer, $obj=null, $depth=1) is used to register a standard handler pointer ($obj being the class object it is in, and $depth being the XML depth you want to match on).
XMLStream::addIdHandler($id, $pointer, $obj=null) is similar, but matches on the attribute "id."

In the future, handlers will broken out into classes, and you will be able to have different types of matching and pointer behaviors.  For now, we have these basic two, which serve the basic features of XMPPHP well enough.

On a match, the pointer is called with the XML that matched.  The function may then interpret the XML and do whatever it needs to with it, including sending replies.  You may also want to spawn an XMLStream event, which can interrupt processing, which I will get into further down.


